You’re working at a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) company that produces a project management tool called Mello. A business analyst in the company, Casey, has sent you an email:

From: Casey (casey@mello.com)

To: You (your_name@mello.com)

Subject: Something happened in January?

Hey there. I noticed product usage was significantly down in January 2023 for one of our important customers and it’s a little alarming.

Total time spent for that customer on all the different feature areas of our site was under 50 hours, which is way under their prior usage. Can you dive in and see if you can shed more light on what’s happening?

I’ve attached a data export with the last 5 years of usage for this customer. All time spent measurements are in minutes. It would be helpful to have:

Some kind of visualization to make it easy to see what’s going on
A written analysis I can share with the team
Thanks for your help!

Casey

Instructions
Write your email response to Casey in the email.md file.

The usage data is in a CSV file at data/usage_data.csv.

Analysis Methods: Your Choice
You can use the tooling of your choice to perform analysis. Most people either use the provided python environment or download the data locally and use something like Excel.

Excel or other local tools
You may download the usage data CSV and use your own tools to do the data analysis. Candidates have used Microsoft Excel, PowerBI, Jupyter Notebook, R, or other tools to complete this analysis.
(Use the "Save Locally" button at the top right corner of the CSV / Python files to download )

Please use the tools that allow you to make the most progress on this scenario.

Then please attach your working file for analysis. It doesn't need to be cleaned up.

Python
This Qualified environment has Python 3.8 with Pandas, NumPy, and Matplotlib imported. If you’re using the environment provided here in Qualified, you can run the code in notebook.py by pressing the "Run Tests" button. There are no actual automated tests – this is just a way to run your code in the environment.

Qualified is not running a Jupyter Notebook type environment, be sure to use typical python syntax such as print when you want to output things to the console

Guidance
The majority of our analysis of your work will focus on the email.md file. Since this is how we will evaluate your response, err on the side of over-communicating the analysis you did in your email.

We will not run your code, so be sure to put any visualizations you want to share into the email file. If you generate visualizations in Qualified or your own environment, either drag and drop them in or screenshot and paste them in.

If you run low on time, document any analysis that you did in email.md for partial credit.